---
title: "Process Model For The Problem-Based Identification Of Solutions In Lean Production Systems 4.0"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-07-26 CPSL
excerpt: 'Process Model For The Problem-Based Identification Of Solutions In Lean Production Systems 4.0.'
date: 2024-07-26
venue: 'Conference on Production Systems and Logistics 2024. Honolulu, Hawaii, USA'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.15488/17750'
citation: 'Schumacher, Simon; Hautzinger, Michael; Hall, Roland; Bauernhansl, THomas (2024). &quot;Process Model For The Problem-Based Identification Of Solutions In Lean Production Systems 4.0&quot; <i>Proceedings of the Conference on Production Systems and Logistics CPSL</i>. (2024). Institutionelles Repositorium der Leibniz Universität Hannover.'
---
Due to the increasing complexity of digital transformation, managing methods in Lean Production Systems 4.0 (LPS 4.0) is a challenging task for industrial engineering practice. This paper aims to address complexity in methods-based productivity management through the development of a process model for the problem-based identification of solutions. The research of this paper involves several workshops involving industrial practitioners to derive an application-oriented process model. The resulting process model covers eight problem fields with 40 specific problems and consists of five main steps. The inputs of this process model are problem specification by industrial engineers. First, industrial engineers are asked to select one of the pre-defined problem fields. Second, industrial engineers select a specific problem from this problem field. The third step is the core of the process model. It transforms the provided problem input into an output of related solution elements from the novel field of LPS 4.0 solutions (78 LPS 4.0 methods and 160 Industrie 4.0 use cases). Fourth, the outputs are filtered according to the characteristics of the application environment. Finally, the process model features the design of a following implementation project. The process model extends the applicability of an existing framework for methods-based productivity management in LPS 4.0, the so-called Toolbox Lean 4.0, a web-based software prototype with LPS 4.0 solutions. As a first evaluation, the process model is applied using the Toolbox Lean 4.0 and is tested by 48 industrial engineers from seven manufacturing firms. The evaluation underscores the benefit of this process model for industrial practice and serves as a blueprint for problem-solving within complex LPS 4.0 environments. Further applications such as the implementation of a chat bot dialogue and the training of a foundation model with the underlying data set are part of the future research roadmap.
